Hope you are having fun because
I am having so much fun
in teaching all of these context
and great examples as well.
Hope you are enjoying them
and you have rated us as well.
This is.
I know I've been saying this a lot,
but if you look at the number
of ratings and number of people who
are enjoying the courses, there is
a strike difference between them.
And we pour in all of our
heart and soul into this.
Just small kind words will
make this course as world's
best course and people will be
able to benefit from it.
That's all I want.
All right, so let me take you
onto the screen again and
first of all, what we're about
to see, we're about to see the
INIT function, which is a
pretty interesting and
important function.
And I'll show you why is
it so much important.
We again, don't need to have
any diagrams for this.
Notice this here.
So this is the function or
the class that we have created.
As soon as I create this object,
it automatically gets to property
the size and the describe.
It has access to all of this.
But maybe I want
to change it something.
I want that.
Hey, whenever you create
an object, just pass me some data
so that I can make the first
reference really nice.
Maybe every single object that
creates have this property always.
How do I do this?
This is known as process
of initialization.
Initialization in short,
is known as init.
We'll create a different
file for this one.
Don't you worry, you'll
get the reference of this.
So we'll call this one as
05 and we'll call this
one as init objects py.
So how do we do this?
First of all, let's say we want to
have a simple chai order this time.
So for the order it makes sense.
And the very first thing that you
do before you declare any variable
or anything, you can actually do
it afterwards as well, no problem.
But the name of the method always
remains same and there are
couple of terminologies as well.
So.
So the moment you actually create
a copy of this class just like
this, there is a process to it.
This is known as I want to init it.
Init, which is also
known as initialize.
But in the world of Python, this
is a reserved keyword, so you
actually suffix it and prefix it
by 2/ and the whole process is
known as I am creating an object.
So initiate, initiate,
initiate an object for it.
And the way you define it is through
a reserved keyword or a reserved
method known as constructor.
Yeah, there is a name for it.
We don't call it
constructor as per se.
In the world of Python itself,
this is known as.
Yeah, it is actually
known as constructor.
But the way how we do
it is via this init.
So this, what you're doing
is you, you are creating
a constructor Y init.
Or you can say, I'm, creating
a constructor Y init or init
creates a constructor,
it just turns, no big deal there.
So this method needs to, and needs
to always have a name
of underscore, underscore init.
As you can see, if I just
take the auto suggestion,
it automatically fills it
with the self as well.
Self always needs to be there
in everyone,
but we'll write it so it in it.
Then underscore, underscore.
Then create a method,
call it as self.
Any method that you're creating
needs to have a self and we'll
pass it just as a moment.
So this is a valid instructor,
but it doesn't do anything.
It needs to do something at least.
So what we can do is we can just
say that, hey, whenever you're
creating an object, you just
pass me, the type and we can
actually use type underscore.
I'll show you what it means and how
does it work, and I'll just go ahead
and create a regular variable size.
So so far you have seen
the variable names or the properties
name as just size or self.
What is this type underscore?
I'll show you.
So what we can do is a, common syntax
that, hey, this self dot type, I
haven't created the type variable,
but the value that I'm going to go
ahead and provide you is type
underscore.
So this is almost like saying
that I do have a variable
known as type, which was having a,
empty value, empty string, none.
There could be a variety
of values, is there?
But this is so much redundant
that you don't actually create
a variable just like this.
If you create your variables
for the first time here, that
is also totally allowed.
So each of the object will
have a property known as
type, whose value you are going
to pass it like this.
And then I will go ahead
and say I have a one more
variable, self dot size.
And I know this variable also doesn't
exist, but since we are in a very
special method known as constructor,
we are allowed to do so.
In other methods you are
not allowed to do so.
So I'll go ahead and fill it
up with the value size.
It is a very common thing that you
Name these variable exactly same
as you are declaring up here.
Surely I can change the name
here as well, but that's
not a good practice.
Let's go ahead
and define another one.
So I'll just go ahead
and say summary.
And again, this will also
have a self just like this.
And I want to return
a formatted string that says,
what should it say?
Self dot size.
And it will say ML of and then we'll
go ahead and say self dot type chai.
All right, so you got this.
We are simply saying that what
is the size of the type
of chai that you are getting to us?
A really very vague example,
but it's okay, it works.
Now let's go ahead
and create an order.
This time it's not just
about saying that, hey, chai
order, and that's it.
This time we have to pass
on some arguments.
You don't have to pass on self.
That is okay, I'll just go
ahead and say I will have
a masala, masala chai.
And that will be of size 200.
That's all I have to do.
Let's use a print statement
for the order.
I can use a method
of summary, execute that.
So that gives me the value.
Now similarly, I can go ahead
and provide the more values up here.
So let me go ahead and have
this order and let's call
this one as order two.
And this will be like chai order.
And this one, my favorite one.
Ginger.
I'll take a little bit more.
I think 300 milliliters.
200 milliliters is already too big.
220 milliliters.
All right, and I'll just print this
and in the printing I'll say order
two dot summary and execute that.
All right, so this is
the code that we have.
And don't you worry, I haven't
forgot this underscore.
I'll come back onto this in a minute.
So I'll just save this and I
will go ahead and run this.
This time we'll just say Python 3,
run the 05 and all of this.
So this works fine.
Now let's come back.
This is a pretty good example
and demonstration of how
the constructor works,
the init files and whatnot.
Now you might be wondering,
what's this type about?
Why have you given an extra
underscore to this type?
Does this work?
Yeah, but you see
an extra formatting.
Why this extra formatting?
Because you forgot one very
interesting thing which I, showed
you in the very first class, that
actually type is an operator in
The Python world, it's a function
which gives me the type of
whatever you ask it.
It is supposed to be used with
the function, but since in our case
it made sense to use the type,
that's why I used the type.
But I actually added
a trailing underscore.
This is a common practice
in production as well.
Sometimes you want to use
the variables which make sense
for our software that I want
to use type, or I want to use init
or I want to use def.
Don't use def.
Try to avoid it.
But I just showed you
this very special case.
I've seen this
in production so many times.
So I thought, if I'm not going
to discuss these production
things with you, who will?
And these are small gotchas which.
Oh, I knew about the type, but I
forgot momentarily about it.
All right, you got it.
This is simple order which creates
a new instance of the class.
We are getting technical now.
We don't call it as object, we
call it as instance of a class,
which takes masala as argument.
And 200 as argument, which
are passed as a parameter.
How technical we are.
And we just assign these values.
If you have more variables, you
can just go ahead and define them.
If you have more functions, you
can just also go ahead and.
And define them.
So this is all about how we get
the constructors and INIT objects or
INIT values in the world of Python.
That is it for this one.
Let's catch up in the next one.